# Enhancing Deepfake Security: A Transfer Learning Approach for Advanced Video Manipulation Detection

The rapid advancement of deepfake technologies has emerged as a critical threat to the authenticity of digital media through the cre- ation of highly realistic but fake visual content. The use of advanced video manipulation tools undermines public trust, poses security risks and chal- lenges the integrity of information across digital platforms. Although sig- nificant progress has been made in deepfake image detection, research on identifying advanced video manipulations, particularly in low-resolution videos remains limited. To address this gap, we propose a deepfake video detection framework by using transfer learning approach. Initially, our method analyzes each extracted frame using a CNN-based architecture to generate frame-level predictions, which are then aggregated by aver- aging. Based on a predefined threshold, the framework finally classifies the video as real or manipulated. For experimentation, we utilized a publicly available dataset named “FaceForensics++” containing a total of 2,000 real and manipulated videos of varying quality and resolution. We explored various CNN architectures and vision transformer models, including Xception, Inception, DenseNet, and ViT-Large, along with rig- orous hyperparameter tuning. Among these, the Xception architecture outperformed others by achieving a test accuracy of 94.5%. This research offers an effective solution to the growing challenge of deepfake detection that facilitates the development of robust and scalable tools that are vital for preserving information integrity in the industry 4.0.

## Dateset

**FaceForensics++**:  `FaceForensics++ is a forensics dataset consisting of 1000 original video sequences that have been manipulated with four automated face manipulation methods: Deepfakes, Face2Face, FaceSwap and NeuralTextures. The data has been sourced from 977 youtube videos and all videos contain a trackable mostly frontal face without occlusions which enables automated tampering methods to generate realistic forgeries. As we provide binary masks the data can be used for image and video classification as well as segmentation. In addition, we provide 1000 Deepfakes models to generate and augment new data.`

